# Project Deliverables - Documentation

## App Description  

The GetPassengers app allows users to enter details and store passengers in a running list and then getting that list displayed back to them. When the user starts up the app it defaults to the MainActivity.kt, which is the main screen of the app. The user sees both the title of the android app and a button “GET PASSENGER LIST” which will redirect the user to the second activity. The text view with the header “RETURNED PASSENGER LIST” will display the all of the passengers that were added on the second activity. When the user presses the “GET PASSENGER LIST” they are redirected to the second activity named GetPassengers.kt. In this screen, the user is prompted with 3 fields to enter: first name, last name, and phone number. Once these fields are entered, the user clicks “ADD PASSENGER” to create a passenger object and adds it to this array list. The user will see an accumulating passenger list while on the second activity and when the user clicks “RETURN LIST” it send the array list of passengers back to the MainActivity.kt. So in essence, MainActivity.kt starts when the program starts, but is responsible for launching the second activity GetPassengers.kt. The second activity is where users add and create Passenger objects and is then returned and displayed back on the MainActivity.kt.  

## Challenges and Solutions  

One challenge I faced durning the project was handling data passing between activities. In the start when I was making the buttons the activity_main.xml file, the app was crashing at first because I did not make the second activity GetPassenger.kt. Later, there was also an issue sending back the passenger list back to the MainActivity.kt, where it was not populating the accumulated list from the second activity. I ended up figuring out that there was an issue with the key-value pairs sending back the data. I ended up making a for loop to get the keys for each passenger and used the putExtra() method to return each passenger object back as a string. 

## Key Learnings  

This project definitely reinforced the fundamentals we learned about from the beginning of the semester to new concepts we learned not to long ago. For example, I got more experience using ConstraintLayouts, practice setting colors, margins, and padding. I also got experience in using registerForActivityResult for handling results from one activity to another. I had experience using lambda functions in python from my Principals of Programming Languages class, but it was neat to use lambda functions in this project to simplify callback handling. Another big thing that I got experience in is creating data classes, specifically Passenger, and using mutable lists for data storage.  

## Future Improvements  

There’s a couple of things that come to mind for improvements of this app. One thing I would implement is maybe some incorporation of Toast messages or error detection when a user tries to submit an incomplete form. For example, only having phone number inputted and first name and last name blank. I think another neat functionality would be to let users edit or delete passengers from the list instead of just accumulating names. Of course, this would require a major change in how the data is stored and passed, because GetPassengers.kt starts fresh every time since the list that is passed is only stored in memory. This would require some sort of persistent storage or keeping the list in MainActivity.kt would be necessary.  
